Anirvarti Satya -🎹

A professional-grade, physical modeling piano synthesizer built entirely using web technologies. No external audio samples are used; the sound is mathematically generated in real-time using the Web Audio API to emulate the acoustic properties of a Steinway Model D concert grand piano.

✨ Features

Physical Modeling Engine: Additive synthesis with dynamic low-pass filtering, inharmonicity simulation, and hammer/chiff noise generation.

Full 88-Key Support: Mathematically calculated frequencies from A0 to C8 with dynamic octave shifting.

Web MIDI API Integration: Plug and play your hardware USB MIDI keyboard with full velocity sensitivity and sustain pedal support.

AI Voicing Engineer: Integrated with the Google Gemini API. Type a natural language prompt (e.g., "Make it sound like a dusty saloon piano") and the AI will automatically twist the physical knobs to create the perfect synth patch.

Recording Studio: Record your performances directly from the audio bus and export them instantly as high-quality .webm audio files.

Progressive Web App (PWA): Fully installable as a native standalone app on iOS, Android, macOS, and Windows. Works offline.

Real-time Visualizer: Dynamic canvas-based oscilloscope that visualizes the audio waveforms in real time.

🚀 Tech Stack

Frontend: Vanilla HTML, CSS, JavaScript (No frameworks)

Audio: Web Audio API (Oscillators, DynamicsCompressor, Convolver, BiquadFilter)

Hardware: Web MIDI API

AI: Google Gemini 2.5 Flash API

🛠️ How to Run Locally

Because this app utilizes Service Workers (for PWA capabilities) and AudioWorklets, it must be run on a local web server (opening the file directly via file:// will block some features).

Clone this repository:

git clone [https://github.com/yourusername/anirvarti-piano.git](https://github.com/yourusername/anirvarti-piano.git)


Open the directory in VS Code.

Install the Live Server extension.

Right-click index.html and select Open with Live Server.

📱 Installing on Mobile

Visit the live hosted URL on your Android or iOS device. Tap the browser menu and select "Add to Home Screen" or "Install App". The synthesizer will install as a full-screen native application.

Created by Satya Prakash